Effects of infrastructures for peace
================
Maria Benavides

## Introduction

Achieving sustainable peace is one of the most relevant global issues
today, especially, since high levels of conflict and violence appeared
to be correlated with stagnant development; however, managing to
transform violent conflict into stable, nonviolent social and political
relationships is a great challenge.

Recently, a new tool for peacebuilding has caught the attention of
scholars and practitioners: **Infrastructures for Peace** (I4P). These
can be understood as a dynamic network of skills, capacities, resources,
tools and institutions that help build constructive relationships and
enhance sustainable resilience of societies against the risks of relapse
into violence (Giessmann, 2016).

Considering the above, on this report, I will explore the variations on
some positive and negative peace indicators (Fragile State Index and
Global Peace Index), on seven countries that have developed
government-lead, national peace infrastructures.

The countries are:

  - Afghanistan
  - Cambodia
  - Colombia
  - Costa Rica
  - Ghana
  - Kenya
  - Yemen

![](research_report_files/figure-gfm/data%20viz%20fsi-1.png)<!-- -->

These countries adopted at least one of the following infrastructures:
national peace councils, government departments, or peace ministries,
policy and legislative measures creating I4P, or transitional justice
mechanisms. If they were to be effective, we should see an improvement
in the **Fragile State Index** overall score in the subsequent years to
the implementation; nonetheless, as we can see on the graph, this is not
the case for most countries.

*(Take into consideration that a higher score, means worse conditions).*

Only Colombia and Costa Rica seemed to have improve in terms of state
fragility in the years after the implementation of peace
infrastructures. The *Yemen* case is also worth mentioning; it presents
a drastic worsening overtime, even after the adoption of peace measures.

![](research_report_files/figure-gfm/data%20viz%20gpi-1.png)<!-- -->

When considering the Global Peace Index, peace infrastructures do not
appear to be effective, yet again; there is little variation on the
overall scores (as in the FSI case, a higher value represents less
peacefulness) after the implementation of I4P.

It is interesting how there is a high variance (0.3291443) among the GPI
scores; countries like Costa Rica and Ghana are, according to this
index, very peaceful, while Yemen and Afghanistan are incredible
violent.

![](research_report_files/figure-gfm/Sub%20indices%20FSI-1.png)<!-- -->
